well in an interview with the Wall
Street Journal Israel's foreign minister
said that we do not want to rule Gaza
and they look forward to handing over
the responsibility of governing Gaza to
an International Coalition so let's
bring in our senior political analyst
Mar bashara the foreign minister the
defense minister the Prime Minister the
security the US security adviser
spokesperson John Kirby all talking
about the day after the war
finishes it's all Nuance but it really
does seem like the left hand doesn't
know what the right hand's doing they're
lost they are completely lost I would
tell you uh looking in hindsight now the
last month of uh of of of this war that
Israel's assumptions Israel's tactics
even Israel's end game have changed the
only
constant is the destruction of
Palestinians lives and livelihoods
that's the only thing that's been
constant
uh the past month Israel just wants to
kill as many Palestinians as possible
and Destroy as many civilian instructure
infrastructure as possible in as far as
the end game clearly the three Israeli
officials and that of the American
position differ they don't know what to
do in the end game and clearly there are
these fantasies that are so farcical
they don't even Merit a commentary such
as when the foreign minister says we're
going to bring the Europeans and the
Americans and the Islamic countries to
govern while we maintain our military
presence in Gaza I
mean theah as it were is is breathtaking
clearly they don't know what to do not
just with the end game so they don't
know what to do today I've just seen a
report by CBS news that says after a
month of killing and more than 10,000
civilian deaths Israel was able to reach
and kill only 60
60 uh principal Hamas Fighters 60 10,000
killed and tens of thousands of wounded
and that's where the Israelis are they
are certainly cannot reach the Hamas
Fighters underground the resistance
continues and clearly they're even
shooting Rockets but Israel's um
shooting aim has been the civilians it
wants Gaza to pay a price for October 7
it wants the people and we've heard that
from the America from the Israeli
president that there are no Innocents in
Gaza and hence uh they are shooting they
are bombing they are in the midst of a
genocide without a clear aim of what's
next they might not have a clear aim yet
Anthony blinkin the secretary of state
who's done his Whistle Stop tour of the
Middle East had his hands slapped is now
in Japan at the G7 foreign ministers
meeting is talking about a clear voice
on Gaza he himself knows that not
everybody at the G7 agrees with him
France certainly one and now you know
Emanuel macron will be under pressure
because a newswire has dropped that even
opposition lawmakers some of them who
are supporters of macron on certain
occasions when legislation gets through
uh in France want a ceasefire he's under
pressure there'll be other leaders there
under pressure from not just their own
politicians and opposition uh
politicians but also from their public
too absolutely look even now the United
States is moving away from just a mere
humanitarian pause now are talking about
a number of days at least uh because
they're also bringing in the hostage
issue to it but clearly as you State uh
uh rightly the Western and the
international public opinion are getting
ansy restless in in fact angry
especially here in the region the Arab
street is boiling in Anger at the sight
of this massacre uh that continues
unabated in Gaza but uh unfortunately we
have a superpower that has been so
reckless so
irresponsible personally I would think
even so foolish to box itself in behind
uh an Israeli government that is so
fanatic and so fascist that its only aim
now is to take revenge and contrary to
what the uh spokesperson of the US
National Security is saying this is not
a war for defending the Israeli people
this is a war to defend the Israeli
occupation which really poses the
question um now that the now that we all
know that the occupation has failed what
are the Israelis proposing more
occupation occupation of the rest of
Gaza now that we know that force and
violence has not worked what are the
Israeli proposing more Force more
violence which begs the question that
they are I mean absolute morons because
when you know if that you've tried a
Thing Once and again for decades and it
hasn't worked to try it once more is a
sign of utter Madness this is create a
huge problem for Biden because well it
does create a huge problem for the
American president because you know you
have this superpower who has aligned
itself with Israel very clearly to the
global audience and yet is finding it
very difficult to decouple itself in the
months ahead if and when this war should
finish in whatever format it finishes in
it's got to try and bring the
International Community with it and
having you might Stak its claim so
clearly to Tel Aviv it's going to be
difficult to ABS win over those that
were Skeptics to start with absolutely
and and uh it's it's it's rather timid
attempts have been so clumsy I mean
diplomatically speaking there's just
been so clumsy because look what
happened over the the past
month in the first in the first first
half of the month the American
Administration box itself completely
behind the Nano government parting
parting one sound bite after another one
falsehood after another about a human
shield about the need to protect its
civilians about why war must be why
Hamas is like isol all that humbug it
just continues to repeat one falsehood
after another when that did not work out
and clearly the Arab world and other
American Allies are discovering slowly
but surely but this is all falsehood the
Americans instead of distancing
themselves from Israel and taking a more
sober view they decided that they're
going to start talking about the day
after but we are in the middle of War
now we are in the middle of genocide
talking about the day after in these
fanciful foral ways about a two-state
solution when we look at the reality and
see that President Biden cannot lean on
the Israeli Prime Minister to force a
2hour humanitarian pause whatever that
means he is promising a two-state
solution how how could anyone believe
the admin American Administration how
could the American Administration have
any
credibility when in the one hand it
cannot pose it cannot force a twoh hour
pause for humanitarian purposes while
talking so fanul about two set solution
they are stuck they are lost they are
facing a a vicious resistance in Gaza
and the only people who are paying the
price for it are tens of thousands
perhaps hundreds of thousands of
Palestinians unfairly and unjustly this
must
end and we'll see when it does marn but
for the moment thank you marwin bashara
our senior political
analy